Things couldn’t have been worse.
Filch took them down to Professor McGonagall’s study on the
first floor, where they sat and waited without saying a word to
each other. Hermione was trembling. Excuses, alibis and wild
cover-up stories chased each other around Harry’s brain, each
more feeble than the last. He couldn’t see how they were going to
get out of trouble this time. They were cornered. How could they
have been so stupid as to forget the Cloak? There was no reason
on earth that Professor McGonagall would accept for their being
out of bed and creeping around the school in the dead of night, let
alone being up the tallest astronomy tower, which was out-ofbounds except for classes. Add Norbert and the Invisibility Cloak
and they might as well be packing their bags already.
Had Harry thought that things couldn’t have been worse? He
was wrong. When Professor McGonagall appeared, she was leading Neville.
‘Harry!’ Neville burst out, the moment he saw the other two. ‘I
was trying to find you to warn you, I heard Malfoy saying he was
going to catch you, he said you had a drag–’
Harry shook his head violently to shut Neville up, but
Professor McGonagall had seen. She looked more likely to breathe
fire than Norbert as she towered over the three of them.
‘I would never have believed it of any of you. Mr Filch says you
were up the astronomy tower. It’s one o’clock in the morning.
Explain yourselves.’
It was the first time Hermione had ever failed to answer a teacher’s question. She was staring at her slippers, as still as a statue.
‘I think I’ve got a good idea of what’s been going on,’ said
Professor McGonagall. ‘It doesn’t take a genius to work it out. You
fed Draco Malfoy some cock-and-bull story about a dragon, trying
178 HARRY POTTER
to get him out of bed and into trouble. I’ve already caught him. I
suppose you think it’s funny that Longbottom here heard the story
and believed it, too?’
Harry caught Neville’s eye and tried to tell him without words
that this wasn’t true, because Neville was looking stunned and
hurt. Poor, blundering Neville – Harry knew what it must have
cost him to try and find them in the dark, to warn them.
‘I’m disgusted,’ said Professor McGonagall. ‘Four students out
of bed in one night! I’ve never heard of such a thing before! You,
Miss Granger, I thought you had more sense. As for you, Mr
Potter, I thought Gryffindor meant more to you than this. All
three of you will receive detentions – yes, you too, Mr
Longbottom, nothing gives you the right to walk around school at
night, especially these days, it’s very dangerous – and fifty points
will be taken from Gryffindor.’
‘Fifty?’ Harry gasped – they would lose the lead, the lead he’d
won in the last Quidditch match.
‘Fifty points each,’ said Professor McGonagall, breathing heavily
through her long pointed nose.
‘Professor – please –’
‘You can’t –’
‘Don’t tell me what I can and can’t do, Potter. Now get back to
bed, all of you. I’ve never been more ashamed of Gryffindor
students.’
A hundred and fifty points lost. That put Gryffindor in last
place. In one night, they’d ruined any chance Gryffindor had had
for the House Cup. Harry felt as though the bottom had dropped
out of his stomach. How could they ever make up for this?
Harry didn’t sleep all night. He could hear Neville sobbing into
his pillow for what seemed like hours. Harry couldn’t think of
anything to say to comfort him. He knew Neville, like himself,
was dreading the dawn. What would happen when the rest of
Gryffindor found out what they’d done?
At first, Gryffindors passing the giant hour-glasses that recorded the house points next day thought there’d been a mistake. How
could they suddenly have a hundred and fifty points fewer than
yesterday? And then the story started to spread: Harry Potter, the
famous Harry Potter, their hero of two Quidditch matches, had
lost them all those points, him and a couple of other stupid firstyears. 